docs: kubernetes upgrade guidance (#5610)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/upgrading/con-upgrade-cluster.adoc

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// upgrading/assembly-upgrade.adoc

[id='con-upgrade-cluster-{context}']
= Upgrading Kubernetes

[role="_abstract"]
If you are upgrading Strimzi, you may also need to upgrade your Kubernetes cluster to a supported version.

Refer to your Kubernetes distribution upgrade documentation to check the upgrade path and the steps to upgrade your nodes correctly.

NOTE: Before upgrading, {supported-configurations}[check supported Kubernetes versions^].

When performing your upgrade, you'll want to keep your Strimzi clusters available.
You can employ the following strategies to do this.

* Configuring pod disruption budgets

> * Updating pods while keeping topics available

Author: All the drain cleaner content now sits under the _Configuring pod disruption budgets_

== Configuring pod disruption budgets

A pod disruption budget allows only a specified number of pods to be unavailable at a given time.
During planned maintenance of Kafka broker pods, a pod disruption budget ensures Kafka continues to run in a highly available environment.

You specify a pod disruption budget using a `template` customization for a Kafka component.
Labels and annotations identify resources.
By default, pod disruption budgets allow only a single pod to be unavailable at a given time.

> You can increase the number of unavailable pods allowed by changing the default value of the `maxUnavailable` property.

Author: I've removed this

> If you used the Cluster Operator to deploy Kafka, you can use the Strimzi Drain Cleaner tool to evict nodes during an upgrade.

Reviewer: Do you expect to get to the Drain Cleaner docs soon? If not, can we add a link to the GitHUb repo as a stop-gap?

Author: Yes. I think I can start looking at that.

To do this, you set `maxUnavailable` to 0. This prevents voluntary disruptions, so pods must be evicted manually.

.Specifying a pod discruption budget
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
# ...
template:
  podDisruptionBudget:
    metadata:
      labels:
        key1: label1
        key2: label2
      annotations:
        key1: label1
        key2: label2
    maxUnavailable: 1
# ...
----

> == Updating pods while keeping topics available

Reviewer: As mentioned above, this still requires the PDB to be set to 0.

During an upgrade, you can trigger a rolling update of pods through the Cluster Operator.

> Using `Pod` resources, rolling updates restart the pods of resources with new pods.

Reviewer: We should stress out here that the user needs to watch which pods need to be drained => and then annotate the correct pod.

== Rolling pods using the Strimzi Drain Cleaner

You can use the Strimzi Drain Cleaner tool to evict nodes during an upgrade.
The Strimzi Drain Cleaner annotates pods with a rolling update pod annotation.
This informs the Cluster Operator to perform a rolling update of an evicted pod.

A pod disruption budget allows only a specified number of pods to be unavailable at a given time.
During planned maintenance of Kafka broker pods, a pod disruption budget ensures Kafka continues to run in a highly available environment.

You specify a pod disruption budget using a `template` customization for a Kafka component.
By default, pod disruption budgets allow only a single pod to be unavailable at a given time.

To do this, you set `maxUnavailable` to 0 (zero).
Reducing the maximum pod disruption budget to zero prevents voluntary disruptions, so pods must be evicted manually.

.Specifying a pod disruption budget
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
  namespace: myproject
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    template:
      podDisruptionBudget:

>         maxUnavailable: 1

Reviewer 2: I know this is just an example. However on line 59 you mention that value 0 should be set. Should we keep this consistent?

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// upgrading/assembly-upgrade.adoc

[id='con-upgrade-cluster-{context}']

> = Upgrading Kubernetes

Reviewer: I think this is a bit weird:
* The first part focus on how to upgrade Kubernetes cluster. It seems to be a strange mixture of specific and unspecific steps which risk that you forget something and does not really help in any case. I think the whole part should be covered by this single sentence:
  ```
  Refer to your Kubernetes distribution upgrade documentation to check the upgrade path and the steps to upgrade your nodes correctly.
  ```
  I would not leave anything else.
* The second part seems focus on OLM upgrades. But these are completely unrelated to Kubernetes upgrades. Strimzi supports wide variety of Kube versions, so the probability that Kubernetes upgrade enables some new Strimzi upgrade is highly unlikely. In fact it happened only once so far - in a specific constellation when you upgraded to Kube 1.16 after Strimzi 0.22 was released. So I do not think this is useful either.

----

Instead we IMHO need to focus on how to keep the existing clusters fully available during the upgrade. I would expect that almost any upgrade procedure would include shutting down nodes => i.e. first draining them. So the focus here should be on:
* Configuring Pod Disruption Budgets
* Manually rolling the pods while making sure the topics are in-sync / using the Drain Cleaner and operator to do this automatically

Author: Yes. I made a comment about this pod disruption and draining when I pushed up the PR. Thanks for confirming.

[role="_abstract"]

> If you are upgrading your Kubenerates cluster to a later supported version, do it before upgrading Strimzi.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to upgrade your Kubernetes cluster to a later version supported by Strimzi, do this before upgrading Strimzi.
```

Author: @scholzj I've changed to be less prescriptive. And added a link to the Supported versions page. (generic link attribute name so a downstream link can use the same)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47596553/135102276-a1425063-b751-42b3-8c52-626fdda981ea.png)

Reviewer: I would leave this just at "Check the supported Kubernetes versions for your Strimzi version" and vice-versa. I do not think there is any link between the upgrades and we should not suggest that the upgrades might need to be done together or anything like that. these are really two separate things.

Author: This is our intro now:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47596553/135837994-dc4f95c5-0ecb-4a15-8fac-a3644ec1164c.png)

Refer to the Kubernetes upgrade documentation to check the upgrade path and the steps to upgrade your nodes correctly.

You’ll need admin privileges to be able to upgrade your Kubernetes cluster.

> As a Strimzi admin with permission to perform the upgrade, the basic steps are as follows:

Author: Reduced to _The basic upgrade steps are as follows:_

> . Backup your Kubernetes components

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Back up your Kubernetes components
```

. Check and provision for any backwards incompatible changes in the release notes of the target version
. Upgrade the Kubernetes cluster manually or automatically

You'll probably want to upgrade the `kubectl` command-line tool to the latest version too.

You can upgrade Kubernetes with minimal downtime for Strimzi.
Consult the latest Kubernetes documentation for guidance on the upgrade process.
For a manual upgrade, you can choose to upgrade nodes, or remove old nodes and replace them with new nodes.

After you have verified that the Kubernetes cluster upgrade is successful, you can upgrade Strimzi.

> If you used the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to install the Strimzi Operator using the _stable_ channel, Strimzi updates are discovered automatically after the Kubernetes upgrade.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you used the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to install the Strimzi Operator from the _stable_ channel, Strimzi updates are discovered automatically after the Kubernetes upgrade.
```

> If you have specified automatic OLM updates, the Strimzi Operator will automatically upgrade to the version of Strimzi that was released for the upgraded Kubernetes cluster version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have specified _automatic_ OLM updates, the Strimzi Operator will automatically upgrade to the version of Strimzi that was released for the upgraded Kubernetes cluster version.
```

// This module is included in the following assemblies:
//
// upgrading/assembly-upgrade.adoc

[id='con-upgrade-cluster-{context}']
= Upgrading Kubernetes

[role="_abstract"]
If you are upgrading Kubernetes, refer the Kubernertes upgrade documentation to check the upgrade path and the steps to upgrade your nodes correctly.
Before upgrading Kubernetes, link:{supported-configurations}[check the supported versions for your version of Strimzi^].

When performing your upgrade, you'll want to keep your Kafka clusters available.

You can employ one of the following strategies:

* Configuring pod disruption budgets

> * Manually updating pods while keeping topics available

Author: I changed to:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47596553/135971779-fce779fc-971f-4da2-a89c-73a1c213aa40.png)
